# Idea_for_phase2 by Jayashri and Ashritha (Team Technocrats)
Thousands of human lives are lost every year around the globe, apart from significant damage on property, animal life etc. due to natural disasters. In this approach we focus on data mining and analytical techniques designed for prediction, detection and development of appropriate disaster management strategy based on the collected data from disasters.
Machine learning in disaster management holds the potential to use predictive analytics for alerting about upcoming calamities.
Predictive analytics is one of the features of machine learning that allows organizations to know about the forthcoming events.  We will be using machine learning to do the work of predictive analytics by tracking patterns and analysing information to know about the possibilities of the same occurring in future. It can assist officials by providing them details on the specific areas where they are less affected. predictive analytics can also supply insights for the authorities to know the impact of a calamity affected area. 

We will also be making use of the inbuilt vibration sensors (known as accelerometers) within computer hard disk drives to quickly analyze and assess information generated by seismic events. This technique will be enabled by collecting hard drive sensor data and transmitting it via high speed networking to a data processing center, which can analyze the data, classify the events and thus predict if there is an earthquake.

When a calamity strikes, one of the toughest tasks for the rescue authorities is to scan through areas affected by the disaster. When authorities want to recover people from a disaster-affected zone, they are also exposed to high risk to save the civilians. So our idea also tackles this as it implements a mechanism which extracts the keywords from the tweets using Stemming Algorithm along with location and time of the tweets. By using this information, the system can analyze the peaks of the keywords like “Earthquake”, “Storm” etc. at a specific time and location. Based on this filtering, automatic alerts will be triggered to people who are present in the nearby locations and the rescue organizations, so that many lives can be saved and losses can be prevented. This would help in saving lives and prevent further losses. The alerts are sent via SMS and Emails to the registered twitter users and the nearby rescue
organizations. So, a sentence like " cyclone in delhi" will be feature extracted to obtain the location and the calamity. Once the peak is reached, this is used to alert the concerned rescue worker organizations to carry out the rescue work immediately thus saving time and lives.

 Natural disasters in forms of earthquake, floods, storms claim numerous lives because significant damage to property. The effects have been much more severe in a developing country like India compared to developed countries. There have been many efforts to predict the disasters based on various sources of data. In our literature survey, we explore the multidisciplinary nature of the task, where data mining models are being applied on various types of data, requiring deep subject matter expertise. We observe that, there have not been enough works done in this area to tap the potential of these sources in India. 
 

